Chen et al. (2016) examines people’s beliefs about how features of personal identities (e.g., preferences and desires, autobiographical memories) are causally related. In particular, the authors investigate whether people thought that changes in more causally central features would be more disruptive to personal identities. My research focuses on the developmental roots of how we make inferences about ourselves, infer others’ beliefs about us, and what information we provide to others about ourselves. In particular, how do we strategically communicate with others when there is a mismatch between our beliefs about ourselves and others’ beliefs about us? Currently, my tasks focus on a single belief (e.g., the child’s belief about their competence operating a toy vs. a confederate’s belief about the child’s competence operating a toy) and I have not yet tackled how these beliefs about the self are structured into features of one’s identity. Replicating Chen et al. (2016) has two main benefits for me: (2) learning new methodology for research in identity, (1) expanding the features of the self that I have been investigating (e.g., exploring personality, morality). This project has the potential for not only expanding my methodological toolkit, but also allowing me to generate new research ideas related to how even young children might begin to causally construe features of their own identities. 

In Chen et al. (2016), participants (n = 250) on mechanical turk completed two main tasks (causal-relationships task and identity-disruption task) and were split across three conditions (self, close-other, and generic-other). The condition name referred to whose identity the subject should focus on throughout the study (e.g., answer the questions about your identity, a close other's identity, or a generic other's identity). In the causal-relationships task, participants viewed a target feature of personal identity (e.g., aesthetic preferences) and were asked which other features (e.g., knowledge of music, level of wholesomeness; total list of 15) were caused by the target feature. For each feature that was reported to be caused by the target feature, subjects rated the strength of its relationship to the target feature (1, 2, or 3; 3 being a strong relationship). In the Identity-disruption task, participants viewed each feature again and reported the extent to which change in each feature might disrupt the identity of the person on a scale from 0 to 100 (larger numbers referring to more disruption).

The stimuli for the tasks were displayed as basic surveys and rating scales. Fortunately, the authors included the exact wording for both tasks and provide an example page of the causal-relationships task. Some challenges I foresee include (1) matching the tasks as closely as possible to the original tasks, as the wording and visual layout might be particularly importnat for task gauging one's insight about personal identities, and (2) storing the participants’ data in a coherent, organized manner for analysis, especially for the causal-relationships task. Another challenge for me will be actually coding the study, especially since I don't have very much experience with web programming. 
